events-2021 atlanta spa shootings

Content Warning: The following entry contains graphic material, including violence and racism.
Overview
2021 Atlanta Spa Shootings refers to several fatal shootings that occurred at massage parlors in Atlanta, Georgia in mid-March 2021. Eight people were killed in the shooting, six of which were Asian American women. After being apprehended by the police, the suspect Robert Aaron Long claimed his actions were the result of sexual addiction and were not racially motivated. According to the Korean news site The Chosun Ilbo,[1] a witness at one of the spas claims to have heard the shooter say he would "kill all Asians."


Background
On March 16th, 2021, eight people at three separate Asian massage parlors in the Atlanta area were shot and killed. With six of the victims being of Asian descent, many believe the attack to be a racially motivated hate crime. Two other victims were white and all but one were women, according to the New York Times.[2] Four were killed at a spa in Acworth, Georgia, where the first shooting took place, another three bodies were found at the Gold Spa in Atlanta. Across the street, an eighth body was found at the Aromatherapy Spa.
Authorities apprehended the suspect who was identified as Robert Aaron Long, a 21-year-old resident of Woodstock, Georgia.


Developments
Government Response
Following the apprehensions of Long, on March 16th, 2021, Governor Brian Kemp responded to the news on Twitter. [3] He wrote, "Our entire family is praying for the victims of these horrific acts of violence. We deeply appreciate the quick apprehension of a suspect by @ga_dps in coordination with local and federal law enforcement" (shown below, left)
Democratic Georgia Senator Raphael Warnock tweeted,[4] "My heart is broken tonight after the tragic violence in Atlanta that took eight lives. Once again we see that hate is deadly. Praying for the families of the victims and for peace for the community." The tweet received more than 39,000 likes and 6,000 retweets in less than 24 hours (shown below, right).

  
Stop AAPI Hate Response
On March 16th, 2021, Stop AAPI Hate, a national coalition focused on anti-Asian hate during the COVID-19 pandemic tweeted,[5] "The reported shootings of Asian American women on Tuesday in Atlanta is an unspeakable tragedy – for the families of the victims first and foremost, but also for the AAPI community -- which has been reeling from high levels of racial discrimination." The tweet received more than 8,2000 likes and 5,000 retweets in less than 24 hours (shown below). They followed the initial tweet with, "Few details have been released, including whether or not the shootings were related or motivated by hate. But right now there is a great deal of fear and pain in the Asian American community that must be addressed."

 
Online Reactions
"Bad Day For Him"
The following day, on March 17th, 2021, at a press conference, Captain Jay Baker of the Cherokee County Sheriff’s Office[6] said, "Investigators interviews [Robert Aaron Long] this morning, and they got that impression that he understood the gravity of it, and was pretty much fed up and kind of at the end of his rope, and yesterday was a really bad day for him and this is what he did."
That day, Vox journalist Aaron Rupar tweeted a video of the press conference. He wrote, "'Yesterday was a really bad day for him and this is what he did' -- a law enforcement official explains Robert Aaron Long's decision to kill 8 people in a strange manner." The tweet received more than 28,000 retweets and 13,000 likes in less than 24 hours (shown below).

"Yesterday was a really bad day for him and this is what he did" -- a law enforcement official explains Robert Aaron Long's decision to kill 8 people in a strange manner pic.twitter.com/u0zFcqjbNK
— Aaron Rupar (@atrupar) March 17, 2021
 
That day, the phrase "FOR HIM" trended on Twitter, with people expressing outrage toward Captain Baker and his choice of words. Twitter[7] user @littlesiha tweeted, "a white man opens fire on a spa of Asian women and somehow it was a really bad day for him?? 'it is not clear if this was racially motivated'???? we are so quick to excuse white people of their crimes. racism is alive and very real. this is not up for debate.: Thet tweet received more than 14,000 likes and 4,800 retweets in less than 24 hours (shown below, left). Gun control activist Shannon Watts tweeted,[8] "'It was a really bad day for him and this is what he did…' is a strange way for the Cherokee County Sheriff to describe the Atlanta gunman's murder spree." The tweet received more than 36,000 likes and 8,600 retweets in less than 24 hours (shown below, right).

  
88rising Yellow Box Campaign
On March 17th, 2021, the multimedia company 88rising posted a green box on Instagram [9] similar to the Blackout Tuesday black boxes used to show solidarity with the Black Lives Matter movement during the George Floyd protests in 2020. 88rising wrote, "Enough is enough. Heartbroken with the disgusting and senseless violence in Georgia tonight. Violence against the Asian community has to stop. Let's protect each other and stand against hate. More from us soon." The post received more than 62,000 likes in less than 24 hours (shown below).

 
Many people spoke out against 88rising and the yellow box campaign. Twitter[10] user @hermit_hwarang shared the post and wrote, "I thought the yellow square things was a joke but apparently 88rising is actually trying to make it a thing." The tweet received more than 3,100 likes and 700 retweets in less than 24 hours (shown below, left). Throughout the day, others criticized the campaign and 88rising (shown below, center and right).

   
