i hate the antichrist

About
I Hate the Antichrist refers to a series of memes, including image macros and Rage Comics, referring to the United Nations (UN) as "the antichrist," a belief perpetuated by certain conspiracy theorists. The memes often depict ways to troll the UN, baiting them by telling them "I hate the antichrist," and first appeared in late 2020 but was popularized throughout early 2021. They are closely related to schizo-posting.


Origin
The belief that the UN is being used as a body for the antichrist, a figure who the Bible claims will pose as God before the second coming, is supported by some believers of anti-globalist conspiracy theories and Christians. The theory is discussed at length in evangelical and author Tim LaHaye's fiction series Left Behind, in which the UN has been overtaken by the antichrist. In 2003, Dateline conducted an interview with LaHaye in which he claims that the antichrist might not be the UN, but that it could be any large influential body with influence (shown below).[2]

On November 24th, 2020, iFunny[1] user BenShapiro posted a Rage Comic that depicts someone setting up large tesla coils disguised as trees around their compound, calling the UN and saying, "I hate the antichrist," then shocking them to death as they come to detain him. The character is then raptured and allowed into heaven. The comic ends with a Bible verse; Psalms 37:13 (shown below, click to expand). The post gained over 6,500 smiles and 220 comments in roughly four months.

 


Spread
The meme slowly spread across iFunny over the next month. On December 30th, iFunny[3] user Cassidy posted a cropped panel from the comic showing the Rage character on the phone saying "I hate the antichrist" to a UN member in a blue helmet who is spitting out cereal, garnering over 2,400 smiles in just over two months (shown below).

 
On January 20th, 2021, YouTuber[4] ItzMeTNT posted an animated version of BenShapiro's original Rage Comic, garnering over 4,000 views in two months (shown below).

By early February the meme began spreading further across social media. For example, on February 6th, Redditor u/SirLulzingtonEsquire posted a comic to /r/he_comes,[8] a board where users make absurd posts talking about a coming rapture, featuring UN members raiding a troll's house and telling him to "come drink your corn syrup," a reoccurring joke in the format, garnering over 360 upvotes in a month (shown below).

 
On February 7th currently suspended Twitter[5] user @A1SLO posted a version of the Self-Proclaimed Free Thinkers format using the phrase and depicting the robots as "blue helmets" (shown below, left). On February 9th, Twitter[6] user @faustianalcohol posted a Crying Wojak with a blue "UN" branded barret and the caption, "'NOOOO YOU CANT JUST SAY YOU HATE THE ANTICHRIST'" (shown below, right).

  
Over the course of the month leading into March, new memes using the phrase and referencing the UN as the antichrist greatly increased, posted across social media on subreddits like /r/he_comes and /r/True_reddit, iFunny, and Twitter, often crossing over into absurd territory and "schizo posting" (further examples shown below).

  
On March 10th, Twitter[7] user @PatriarchPrimus posted, "In 30 years, give or take, saying 'I hate the antiChrist' will send you to jail or a mental hospital for 'religious extremism'" garnering over 220 likes in six days. That same day, @schema64 commented, "Say "I hate the antichrist" and 30 mins later these mfers land on your lawn" along with a photo of armed men getting out of a helicopter (shown below).

 


Various Examples

      
