moneybagg joe

For up-to-date information regarding COVID-19 coronavirus, including prevention and treatment, please visit CDC.gov.
About
Moneybagg Joe is a meme character that combines aspects of United States President Joe Biden and rapper Moneybagg Yo. The character generally takes the form of image edits characters in posts about President Biden's relief package in response to the COVID-19 pandemic. His image is made to look like a young musician showing off their wealth.


Origin
On January 13th, 2021, one week before his inauguration, President Biden announced a $1.9 trillion COVID-19 pandemic relief package.[1] The following day, on January 14th, 2021, responding to news of President Biden's COVID-19 relief package, Twitter [2] @deviousnegus tweeted, "Moneybagg Joe" (shown below).

 


Spread
Roughly three months later, on March 10th, 2021, President Biden signed the relief package into law.[3] That day, people began using the nickname "Moneybagg Joe" to both express their excitement over the package and slightly mock the President for spending so much money. That day, Twitter[4] user @sydneecristina tweeted, "They don’t call him Moneybagg Joe for nothin!" It was the earlier known tweet to use the nickname in response to the news (shown below, left). The following day, on March 11th, Twitter[5] user @mahoganymarie_ tweeted, "calling Joe Biden “Moneybagg Joe” is the funniest shit ever to me. lmaoo i love black people so much." The tweet received more than 27,000 likes and 6,000 retweets in less than one week (shown below, right).

  
That day, the nickname went viral on Twitter as a result of a tweet by @cinique3, who posted an image edit of Biden wearing a do-rag, sunglasses and jewelry. They captioned the post, "Introducing Moneybagg Joe 😎'I just looked at my watch I got time today, Fuck it I’m signing the line today.'" @cinique3's post 14,000 likes and 5,000 retweets in less than one week (shown below).

 
Moneybagg Yo's Response
On March 11th, 2021, Moneybagg Yo shared a version of the meme on Twitter,[9] captioning the post several laughing emojis (shown below, left).
The following day, Moneybagg Yo shared a clip on Instagram from MSNBC that discussed the meme. Moneybagg Yo wrote, "National News Manne Wtf 😳 Shit Done Got Outta Hand 🤦🏽‍♂️ 😂." The post received more than 1 million views and 270,000 likes in less than three days (shown below, right).

 

Media Coverage
Several media outlets covered the meme, including Chron,[6] Revolt,[7] HipHopDX[8] and more.


Various Examples

   
   

