robert loggia minute maid orange tangerine commerical

About
The Robert Loggia Minute Maid Orange-Tangering Commerical, also known as Whoa, Robert Loggia, refers to an infamous advertisement for orange juice featuring actor Robert Loggia. The commercial has since become a popular source of conversation as well as video remixes.


Origin
In 1998, actor Robert Loggia appeared in an advertisement for Minute Maid Orange-Tangerine juice.[1][2] The commercial consists of a young boy named Billy refusing his parents' request to drink his juice. After telling his parents that he would only listen to Robert Loggia, the actor enters the kitchen and the two have the following exchange:
Billy: Whoa, Robert Loggia!
Robert Loggia: Billy, your mother's right, new Minute Maid Orange Tangerine tastes great and it's got as much calcium as milk.
Billy: If you say so, Mr. Loggia.
Robert Loggia: Yeah.
Billy: This is great!
Robert Loggia: Enjoy your breakfast.
Voice Over: New Minute Maid Orange Tangerine with calcium.
Robert Loggia: Yeah.



Spread
The conversation about the commercial dates back to the mid-2000s, with the earliest available reference appearing on thee xixax.com[3] message board on March 29th, 2004. User GoneSavage wrote, "Does anyone remember this?  I don't, but my friend was trying to explain to me this orange juice commercial where the only way these kids would drink the orange juice is if Robert Loggia was spotted drinking it.  Apparently, he walks in, the kids scream "ROBERT LOGGIA!" and a round of orange juice is enjoyed. I don't remember it, but if anyone can testify to its existence, I'd appreciate it.  And hell, a link to the actual commercial would be astounding. Enjoy the rest of your day."

 
On June 21st, 2007, YouTuber [4] Deadmaker46135 uploaded the commercial. The post received more than 530,000 views in less than 14 years. The following month, July 12th, YTMND user kryptoknightmare launched a site devoted to the commercial. The post received more than 9,000 views in less than 14 years (screenshot below, left). The site is also one of the earliest remixes of the commercial and features a musical version of Billy and Loggia's dialogue. On February 27th, 2010, YouTuber Mr. Bigglesworth posted the remix on YouTube, where it received more than 11,000 views in less than 12 years (shown below, right).

 

On September 12th, 2012, YouTuber Joe Cook uploaded an interview with Loggia in which he called the advertisement "very successful" (video below).

