subcultures-kenshi

About
Kenshi is a PC  RPG Squad sandbox open-world game praised by it's unforgiven and brutal world and  game mechanics and overall freedom of election to the player rather than a set main quest story line.
Origin
[W.I.P]
Reception
After many years on Early access it finally released on December of 2018 with favorable reviews despite having many flaws on some of it's Gameplay mechanics And and still some Bugs and glitches after more than 10 years of development.
People stuck by it thanks to it's Atmosphere and vague but interesting world building and lore. Mostly put together by players themselves rather than the game giving straight answers.


The World of Kenshi
The world of Kenshi(or Moon that is orbitting an actual planet) is inhabitated by different races and Kingdoms all figthing, trading and working to fulfill their own agendas. With The Holy Nation, The United Cities and the Shek Kingdom being the most remarkable of them.
All living on the remnants of an advanced ancient empire which after it's fall and some kind of big cataclism caused all society to revert it's technological level. Although most technological and history knowlege was lost some of it remains and is still being used to this day with some factions(Especially the Tech Hunters) studying it tto unwrap what happened in the past and revive some of the ancient Technology.
The Holy Nation
They are a Faction of Religious Fanatics That follow the teachings of Okran and the Holy Flame.
They are composed of only Humans(except for their slaves). They believe that The Shek and Hivers are spawns of the "devil"
(Narko). But rather than killing them outright they instead Enslave them to work them to the death so they can "earn" their chance to be reincarnated as humans on their next life.
They are at war with the United Cities and the Shek Kingdom
The united Cities
A Poweful Union of Cities with a polulation composed of all races. However, Due to the high corruption,  incopetence from the ruling class and an insane focus on an slavery economy it has lead to most of it's citizen to poverty, which was declared illegal causing most people to also fall into slavery.
The Rebel Farmers, a faction of Farmers that lost their lands due to not being able to compete with the Slave Work. And the Anti-Slavers were formed to fight against te UC Tirany. with some level of success.
The United Cities are at War with the Holy Nation and in truce with teh Shek Kingdom
The Shek Kingdom
[W.I.P]


Races
Like many fantasy setting, Kenshi has a variety of different races inhabittating the world.
Humans
Shek
The Shek are a Race of bony, horned humanoids. It is the only race which does not have a related subrace. Although very physically capable, they lacksome talent on Science and manual labour.

 
(Shek Concept Art)


Unique recruitable Characters
Beep
Beep is a Hiver and recruitable follower that can be encounter at the city of "Mongrel" for free.
Due to his naive unique dialogues and oblivious but charming personality he became fan favorite unique character of the community despite his very low initial Stats, many players even risking their low level characters to get him early on even though he is at one of the most dangerous zones for fresh starts.


 

(Generic Picture of Beep).
Sadneil
Sadneil is a Skeleton he is a recruitable companion that you can get for free if you apply peer pressure,he is loved by many due to his interesting dialogue that makes it really obvious that he has depression and has trouble communicating his emotions
[WIP]
"I tried to write this up while at work. but I can't put more time on this at the moment. I'll try to make it into a  more flesh out article once I have time" – Chouseng









Recent Videos



There are no videos currently available.




Add a Video








Recent Images

(2)




















Add an image









Tags


kenshi
open world
sandbox
beep
shek
hiver




Additional References


Twitter





Entry Editors

(1)


Request Editorship








Chouseng







Suggest a Change
Edit History
View All Editors




Comments



Add a Comment





Show Comments








































Add a Comment




















View More Comments



