tell me the truth im ready to hear it

About
"Tell Me The Truth I'm Ready To Hear It", also written as Tell Me The Truth…I'm…I'm Ready To Hear It, is a memorable quote uttered by the character Mary Jane Waton in the 2002 superhero film Spider-Man. Online, people use the scene in which she utters the phrase as a three-panel image macro in which the truth Mary Jane asks for is absurd or an unpopular opinion (similar to other "Thing I Don't Like" memes, such as Jerry Smith Looking Through Viewfinder and Vomiting).


Origin
On May 3rd, 2002, Columbia Pictures released the film Spider-Man in the United States.[1] Toward the end of the film, the character Mary Jane asks Peter Parker (portrayed by Kirsten Dunst and Tobey Maguire to tell her the truth, which means he would have to reveal his secret identity as Spider-Man.
On January 31st, 2020, YouTuber Mr. Blueberry shared the clip on YouTube The post received more than 3,600 views in less than two years (shown below).



Spread
Roughly 12 months after the video posted to YouTube, on December 24th, 2020, Redditor andson-r shared a three-panel image macro of the scene I nthe /r/dankmemes[2] subreddit. In the image, Mary Jane asks "Tell me the truth…I'm…I'm ready to hear it." Peter responds, "Since people wiht one or no testicles exist, anyone with two technically has an above average number of balls." In the final panel, Mary Jane is crying. The post received more than 36,000 points (94% upvoted) and 270 comments in less than six months (shown below, left).
The following day, Twitter [3] user @cosmemess posted a variation of the meme, which featured Peter's text as "we have to 3 more years for the next stormlight book" (shown below, center).
The meme continued to appear on various websites for the news few months, finally hitting a inflection point in March 2021. On March 17th, 2021, Instagram [4] account @drgrayfang posted a version in which Peter's subtitle reads, "Applebee's fucking blows." The post received more than 55,000 likes in less than 24 hours (shown below, right).

   
